To work with Google Maps, we'll use the Google Maps Flutter plugin to which the location package conveniently
links,
you can also simply google for Google Maps Flutter and this is now actually a plugin managed by the official
Flutter team and this package can also be installed by adding it to our pubspec.yaml file and
you'll find full installation instructions of course on pub.dev,
if you search for Google Maps there, then you should find that Google Maps Flutter package. Under installing,
you can now pick that dependency version here,
go to your pubspec.yaml file and add it here. As always, save this, run Flutter packages get
if it doesn't run automatically, you know the game
and with that, go to the README. There,
we can see that we also need to adjust our manifest, our AndroidManifest and also something in iOS.
So in the AndroidManifest, it's this metadata entry which you need to copy and for that, go to your Android
folder,
src folder, main, AndroidManifest and there, add this metadata entry in the application node.
So not here in manifest but inside of application, maybe right here in front of that activity.
Now here, you need to enter your Google API key and we got that key of course, we got it in the location
helper. It's this key which I stored here in a constant,
you also need to provide it here.
We also need to work on the iOS setup, so let's close that here,
the Android folder and let's go to the iOS folder and there in the runner folder to the
AppDelegate.m file. In there, you need to add this one line here for now in front of this generated plugin
registrant thing here,
so let's add this here and add your API key here as well, so grab that API key again and go back to the
AppDelegate file and replace this part here with your key and also important,
make sure that you add this import here to GoogleMaps.h at the top,
otherwise you'll face errors. Now with that,
you also need to add a special key to the info.plist. So go to the info.plist file here and then somewhere
in there,
add a new key and of course also add this closing bracket with this name and then the value
yes. You can also see an example if you search for Flutter Google Maps and you visit the official github
repository where this open source package is managed,
there you also find an example and there, if you go to the iOS folder, to the runner folder and the
info.plist, you should see
this entry, here it is. So you can also of course just copy that entry and use this here in your info.plist
file. So now with that, we got all the setup in place to hopefully work with the map,
it's now also worth pointing out that the emulator you're running here, if you want to test this on an
Android emulator, this emulator should support Google Play Services.
How do you find out?
Open Android Studio and go to your AVD manager there and in the AVD manager,
make sure you launch an emulator which has this play store icon.
If you don't have such an emulator yet, create a new virtual device and pick an image which has this icon,
you'll need this to have Google Maps work correctly on your device.
So now with that, the plugin is installed and configured,
now it's time to use it. To use the Google Maps plugin,
I will actually add a new screen in the screens folder, the map screen because my goal is to present
the map as a full screen map.
You don't have to do that,
you can also add it as a part of your screen
but here I want to control the entire screen with it. So in the map screen however, we'll still create
a normal widget and that will also be a stateful widget, lots of stateful widgets in this application
because here I want to be able to handle taps on the map and save that as a location the user wants
to pick.
So I'll name this map screen and then of course, add the material.dart import and also already import
another package
and that would be the Google Maps Flutter package and there, the google_maps_flutter.dart file.
Now here in the build method, I'll not return a container but a scaffold because even though it's a full
screen map, I still want to have an appBar and so on,
you don't need to of course but I want it here.
So I'll add the appBar in there and set a title of your map or whatever you want to have here as a title
and then add a body on the scaffold and the body should be the map.
Now with the Google Maps Flutter package imported, you can create a Google map widget here and that does
what it sounds like, it renders a Google map.
Now on that map, you want to set up a couple of things, you want to setup an initial camera position which
is basically the location which is focused when the app launches.
Now this initial camera position here shouldn't always be the exact same position though because I want
to be able to set this from outside as I want to use this maps
screen here also to show the picked location and not just to pick a new location. So therefore on the
maps screen widget, I expect to get an initial location and the type for that should actually be of type
place location which we set up in our models folder and there in the place.dart file. There if you
remember, we added this place location class which has a latitude, a longitude and address.
So that's what I want here, my place location,
that's an input I want to receive and I also want to get the information whether we are selecting a place,
so that's a boolean or whether we're maybe just showing up already in selected place.
So whether I want to let the user tap on the map and select a new place or whether it's a read-only
map so to say. So let's now add the constructor and in there, of course I want to get my initial location
and I want to get isSelecting. Now isSelecting should be optional though, so I'll wrap this in square
brackets and assign a default value of false so that the default mode here is that we don't select but
that we actually only show what was already selected and the initial location should actually also be
optional.
So I'll wrap both in square brackets and here, the default value will be a new place location and actually
to have more flexibility regarding which argument we want to assign, I'll use named arguments by replacing
the square brackets with curly braces
but now here, I want to create a new place location as a default starting location where the latitude
is this value and that's the value of the Googleplex in the end.
You'll find this here as well,
you can also use this shortened latitude here of course
so that I have the same starting position here.
Obviously you could pick a totally different one if you wanted to, longitude
therefore will be this location here.
Let's use that here and now I'm still getting an error here
because if you do create this as a default value here in your constructor list, then this actually must
be a constant because Dart must be able to rely on this never to change during runtime and you can turn
this into a constant by going to the models folder, the place.dart file and adding const in front of
this. We can turn this into a const constructor because all these fields are final,
so this will never change at runtime and therefore here, we can also add const and everyone's happy. So with
that, we're getting this initial location here on our widget, down there where we create the Google map
and need that position, we can therefore use the widget property which is available in the state class
and reach out to the initial location.
However down there, we of course don't need a location like this but actually, initial camera position
once a camera positioned an object. Creating that is relatively easy,
we create a new camera position, a class that is made available by Google Maps Flutter package and there,
we can set up a target and a target then is of type latlng
and that's basically just another class provided by the Google Maps Flutter package which takes
a latitude and a longitude coordinate.
So here, it first wants the latitude followed by the longitude
and here we can now use widget, initial location latitude and then widget, initial location longitude.
And with that, we're initializing this camera position to this target position on the map with this coordinate
pair, we're getting this coordinate pair from outside
but if it's not set, we'll use this default here and now there's just one more thing. On that camera
position, besides the target,
we can also set if the camera should be tilted a bit
or for example set the zoom and I want to set this to 16, the same zoom value as I used for the starting
map.
This will create a new Google map and for now, that's all we need.
So now we can open that map screen here whenever users tap on that button in our location input, whenever
users tap on that select on map button.
So in there, let's actually make sure we open the Google map screen in that place
and let's add a new method here in the location_input.dart file, which will return a future which eventually
will yield nothing
and I'll name this select on map, it'll be an async function hence the async keyword
and now there, I want to use my navigator
and of course push a new route and I'll create this route on the fly, MaterialPageRoute where
the builder should build me that map screen.
So we get the context here and I want to return a new instance of the map screen.
So for that of course, we need to import that map screen here in the location input widget,
so map_screen.dart from the screens folder is imported
and then here, we create that map screen and here, I'll set isSelecting to true, which for now has no
direct impact but which will become more important later.
Now why do I return a future here and use async? Because you might remember that when we push a screen,
once that screen is popped, we can return data with pop and then listen to that here with a then method
or since I use async, simply with await.
So I wait for this map screen to be popped and I expect to get the selected location back or at least
that is what might happen,
I'll first of all check if selected location is equal to null, so
if the user didn't select the location because the user closed the map just like this, then I'll return,
otherwise I'll later add code to use that selected location.
Now first of all, let's connect select on map with that button down there,
so here I'll point at the select on map method.
So now let's test this and just as before, since we added a plugin that taps into native device features,
quit the running process, do a full rebuild and restart and thereafter, let's test this on our emulator.
So the app restarted,
let's go to the add place screen and there select on map. This opens up a new screen with a map focused
on the Googleplex which is the starting, the initial position I configured. We can go back there of course
because we pushed to this map and go back and forth.
Now one thing we can also configure here in the location input where I opened this map, on the
MaterialPageRoute,
you can also add the full screen dialog argument and set this to true and then you'll get a different
open animation and instead of the back button you have across, totally optional, just a different look
to that
but let me also show you that look since we haven't used that thus far in the course.
Now if I click on select on map, this will have a slightly different animation and give us this x up
there
but again, it's totally optional to use that.
The important thing is that here, we got a map and we can move around on this map here, it's a bit slow
on the emulator, we'll be much faster on the real device but here, we have a map we can move around.
If you hold command or control, you can also pinch and zoom here if you want to
and this is an important first step.
The next step is to make sure that we can tap on this map and then we place a marker at that position
where the user tapped and we then allow the user to press a check icon up there to confirm this choice
and go back and use that location.